# Download spatial data of official metropolitan areas in Brazil

The function returns the shapes of municipalities grouped by their
respective metro areas. Metropolitan areas are created by each state in
Brazil. The data set includes the municipalities that belong to all
metropolitan areas in the country according to state legislation in each
year. Original data were generated by the Brazilian Institute of
Geography and Statistics (IBGE). Data at scale 1:250,000, using Geodetic
reference system "SIRGAS2000" and CRS(4674).

## Usage

``` r
read_metro_area(
  year,
  code_state = "all",
  simplified = TRUE,
  as_sf = TRUE,
  showProgress = TRUE,
  cache = TRUE,
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- year:

  Numeric. Year of the data in YYYY format. It defaults to `NULL` and
  reads the data from the latest year available.

- code_state:

  The two-digit code of a state or a two-letter uppercase abbreviation
  (e.g. 33 or "RJ"). If `code_state="all"` (the default), the function
  downloads all states.

- simplified:

  Logic `FALSE` or `TRUE`, indicating whether the function should return
  the data set with 'original' spatial resolution or a data set with
  'simplified' geometry. Defaults to `TRUE`. For spatial analysis and
  statistics users should set `simplified = FALSE`. Borders have been
  simplified by removing vertices of borders using `st_simplify{sf}`
  preserving topology with a `dTolerance` of 100.

- as_sf:

  Logic. If `TRUE` (the default), the function returns an
  `sf data.frame`. If `FALSE`, the function returns an arrow dataset.

- showProgress:

  Logical. Defaults to `TRUE` display progress bar.

- cache:

  Logical. Whether the function should read the data cached locally,
  which is faster. Defaults to `cache = TRUE`. By default, `geobr`
  stores data files in a temporary directory that exists only within
  each R session. If `cache = FALSE`, the function will download the
  data again and overwrite the local file.

- verbose:

  A logical. If `TRUE` (the default), the function prints informative
  messages and shows download progress bar. If `FALSE`, the function is
  silent.

## Value

An `"sf" "data.frame"` OR an `ArrowObject`

## Examples

``` r
# Read all official metropolitan areas for a given year
m <- read_metro_area(year = 1970)
#> ℹ Using year/date 1970

m <- read_metro_area(
  year = 2024,
  code_state = "RJ"
  )
#> ℹ Using year/date 2024
```
